The templates included in "Compatible_With_2511_Or_Newer" should only be used, if all users have version 2511.2.0 or newer installed. If some of your users are still working with older versions of the Excel add-in we recommend using the templates in "Compatible_With_Any_Version".
In these templates still ActiveX controls are included in the SAP IBP Formatting Sheet, which makes them compatible with older versions. When using 2511.2.0 or newer those ActiveX controls are no longer in use.

ChartVBA_Embedded_FormControls.xlsm” and “ChartVBA_AddIn_FormControls.xlsm” are the new sample VBA planning view templates that use Form controls instead of ActiveX controls. The buttons, checkboxes, and list boxes that are used to control the VBA chart have been replaced by Form controls. As a consequence, they look slightly different, but they function the same way.
To be able to use the “ChartVBA_AddIn_FormControls.xlsm” sample template you need to download the new “SAP_IBP_Chart.xlam” file and place it in folder %appdata%\Microsoft\AddIns.
The new “SAP_IBP_Chart.xlam” file works with former versions of the sample template and the new one.

In previous versions of the sample VBA planning view templates, buttons, checkboxes, and list boxes were ActiveX controls. Microsoft announced that in Microsoft 365 and Office 2024, the settings for ActiveX controls have changed to be disabled by default and recommends to disable ActiveX controls unless necessary, see the [Microsoft support pages](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/activex-controls-are-disabled-by-default-in-microsoft-365-and-office-2024-9cae60f8-478c-42c6-978c-eca072525d64). Therefore, we have removed the previous versions of the sample VBA templates and replaced them with the new ones. We recommend using one of those versions when creating new planning view templates.

If you want to deactivate ActiveX controls for your users, you need to adjust any existing planning view templates and favorites that have been created based on the former sample VBA templates and upload them with version 2511.2.0 or newer of the Excel add-in. Additionally, make sure that all users have at least version 2511.2.0 of the Excel add-in installed. Find further information about the steps you need to carry out at [What's New in SAP IBP 2511: Discontinuation of ActiveX Controls](https://help.sap.com/docs/SAP_INTEGRATED_BUSINESS_PLANNING/553021ecd9a64b72be1e9411635594d2/5a60e4fdce2f44f6b72926c67bef685d.html) and [Planning with Microsoft Excel: Discontinuing ActiveX Controls](https://help.sap.com/docs/SAP_INTEGRATED_BUSINESS_PLANNING/b28ffdd739bf45678ef36c44e64652d7/41622ac3d6f243988eb2cde460361eeb.html?locale=en-US).
We know that adjusting or creating your templates requires effort and the right knowledge, therefore we provided additional help to migrate existing templates and favorites with version 2602.2.0 of the Excel add-in, see [What's New in SAP IBP 2602: Discontinuation of ActiveX Controls: Migrating Planning View Templates and Favorites](https://help.sap.com/docs/SAP_INTEGRATED_BUSINESS_PLANNING/36f449c206f94a41ae951cffe4a2b3c0/042a3090de1f4a2eba42df82f4d12909.html).
